Aurora Developer Cheatsheet (#34)
aurora-is-near/doc.aurora.dev: content/index.md

in Aurora's EVM are denominated in the same Ether (ETH) as on Ethereum
itself.

# Aurora Developer cheatsheet

### Gas fees and API Keys

> At the moment we cover all the gas costs on the mainnet. This makes Aurora a good target for various DDoS and Spam attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment we cover all the gas fees on the Mainnet. This makes Aurora a good target for various DDoS and Spam attacks.
```

> To fight those, we have API keys. There's a public UI in development for developers to be able to get those, but for the time being those have to be issued manually. To request an API key, message Anton ([telegram](https://t.me/antonpaisov), [email](mailto:anton@aurora.dev)) or Ahmed ([telegram](https://t.me/theZeroX)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fight those, we have API keys. There's a public UI in development for developers to be able to get those, but for the time being, those have to be issued manually. To request an API key, message Anton ([telegram](https://t.me/antonpaisov), [email](mailto:anton@aurora.dev)) or Ahmed ([telegram](https://t.me/theZeroX)).
```

To generate an API key we will need an email address to associate with it, so please include it in the message.

To use the key simply append it to the network host address. So `https://mainnet.aurora.dev` becomes `https://mainnet.aurora.dev/YOUR_API_KEY`

### Maximum gas per transaction (a monthly updated section)
The main issue we have on Aurora and we're constantly working on improving is the maximum gas per transaction limit.
The nature of the issue comes from the fact that the block time on NEAR is 1 second (for comparison it's 14 seconds on Ethereum).

> Naturally the transaction must fit in a block.

Reviewer: I don't get the purpose of this message, but if we are talking about most cases, let's use the following phrasing:

```suggestion
Usually, the transaction must fit in a block.
```

There's no easy way to map NEAR Gas to Ethereum Gas, but the rough current maximum gas per tx corresponds to `1.63mil Eth gas`.
If you see `"error": "wasm execution failed with error: FunctionCallError(HostError(GasLimitExceeded))"`, it means you've hit that limit.
It's ofter possible to optimise the contract to overcome the issue (reducing transaction batch sizes, optimising big transactions).

> We're working hard on making the issue non-existant, but it's important to know it's present at the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're working hard on making the issue non-existent, but it's important to know it's present at the moment.
```

### Running your own Aurora Node
If you feel like you need to run an Aurora Node yourself, please use [this setup](https://github.com/aurora-is-near/partner-relayer-deploy)

> The hardware requirements for the node are same as for [NEAR RPC Node](https://docs.near.org/docs/develop/node/rpc/hardware-rpc#recommended-hardware-specifications) though we recommend to having 20-30% more storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hardware requirements for the node are the same as for [NEAR RPC Node](https://docs.near.org/docs/develop/node/rpc/hardware-rpc#recommended-hardware-specifications) though we recommend having 20-30% more storage.
```

### Adding assets to the bridge
We have recently released this [UI interface](https://rainbowbridge.app/deploy) to deploy and view bridge tokens. The metadata status update is also available.
And to add your assets to the bridge you need to create a PR in [bridge-assets](https://github.com/aurora-is-near/bridge-assets) (see readme).

> ### Requestions Eth for the testnet
> To request testnet Eth, go to [Aurora Testnet Faucet](https://testnet.aurora.dev/faucet)

Reviewer: It should be either "Requests for ether in Aurora Testnet" or the one that I suggest below:

```suggestion
### Aurora Testnet Faucet
To request some ETH on Aurora Testnet, go to [Aurora Testnet Faucet](https://testnet.aurora.dev/faucet)
```
